
## what you are up against.


<p text align = "justify">Girls have become so used to having multiple choice of men, that they believe things have always been like this. They are unaware that just a few generations ago, they would have been lucky to have just two good men a year knocking at their door. Most of this choice is a result of technology, which allows women to access and meet more men in one day for sex than they could have in an earlier lifetime. Since technology is continuing to advance rapidly, I don't predict a return to the old ways. If anything it will soon become impossible for man who doesn't use some sort of gaming strategy to even get a date. but try to imagine the effect on your psychology if 1,000 women a month were trying to have sex with you. What kind of person would that make you? I'd be moody, always dependent on the reactions I'd get from women. If received less attention in a weekend than usual, I'd throw a temper tantru and demand immediate satisfaction. I'd also get bored easily. With so many women constantly trying to entertain me, I wouldn't be able t tolerate 5 minutes with a boring girl who didn't jump through hoops to make me laugh.  trying to find lasting love, comfort, and stability with a modern woman is like trying to have a deep conversation with a cat that just wants to chase after a red laser dot darting around on the floor. Adapting to modern female nature is easier said than done because while this change is very recent, you still have 200,000 years of biology, evolution, instincts, hard-wired genetics and tradition screaming at you to be the nice guy and chase women. ALL men today need to modernize their approach to women to reflect this "new normal.
</p>





## The Old contract

<p text align = "justify"> Men provided resources and protection. Women provided sex and (if wanted) children .To deny the old contract is to ignorantly deny human nature. The seeds of every man's destruction are embedded in his natural male biology, sex drive, and masculinity. Men who don't understand how traditional male nature CONFLICTS with the new social contract of today face a life of poverty, strife, confusion, divorce, and even imprisonment. It is here where men's belief in outdated norms destroy them, and you must UNPLUG from what you are wired and taught to do. </p>

#How-it-used-to-be

  <p text align = "justify">The relationship between most men and women throughout all of history has been transactional. It has been prostitution.  So is she a "whore” demanding a man make money? Not really. That insistence is hard-wired and results in children and a family that brings tremendous joy, arguably the whole purpose of life itself. But if it were not for those standards, no a single innovation, advancement, or technology would have been made by men to convince women otherwise. Nearly every innovation or creation and almost all of society and civilization would not exist if women did not effectively insist men achieve some level of excellence before having sex with them. </p>
  
#Todays-Reality

  <p text align = "justify">Modern trends have rendered this reasonable want from the old contract impossible for most men. women no longer need men for resources. since  You are hard-wired to want women, love sex, and (for most of us) children. To deny your nature damns you to lead a miserable and unfulfilled life, so You must strike a balance that allows you to achieve your old contract desires while successfully navigating new contract realities. This will help you avoid divorce, financial ruin, heartbreak, or even jail. You must see the world for REAL, not what is IDEAL.  </p>
  
  

## The New contarct


<p text align = "justify">This begs the question, “How did women get liberated?” One day they are wholly reliant upon men, and in a short 100 years, they're not. So what change allowed women to carve their living out of the world independently. </p>


#Indestrial-revolution

<p text align = "justify">The industrial revolution replaced physically demanding blue-collar jobs with climate-controlled-office white-collar jobs. As a result, you no longer needed a man's physical strength to work as much as you did basic intelligence and competency, which nearly every woman had. The industrial revolution also made things incredibly more efficient. For example, automating household chores (that generally kept women at home) an eliminating commutes through the wonders of the internet. Thes technological advances lessened the amount of time a man and woma needed to work to support a family and, more critically, an individual. Consequently, women could perform their jobs and be financiall independent of men. Men's role in society had been entirely replaced by a paycheck or government check </p>

<p text align = "justify">With no need for men (or so women think), women were allowed to choose the right man rather than be forced or coerced into accepting the wrong one. This transformed the contract between men and women from dependency and prostitution to that of choice or “volunteerism.” And if you take a minute or two to think about it, what should have transpired was a dramatic improvement between the sexes. With no longer needing each other, both men and women could choose who they wanted to be with instead of who they needed to be with. This would logically lead to happier relationships between the sexes as desire forms stronger bond than force. That couples were happier “in love” than they were “in business.” The new contract also should have improved relation between men and women by shoring up everyone's finances. Having two incomes would eliminate the number one killer of relationships – financial problems – and happier, more stable marriages would result.  While this looked GREAT on paper and certainly stood to reason, this new utopia era between the sexes did not materialize... kind of like communism The results were quite the opposite, and if you look at relations between men and women today, they have never been worse.  Premarital activities such as courtship, dating, and sex ar down as well. Your average Millennial gets only 1.43 dates per year, compared to 9.3 and 4.7 for X'ers and Boomers. Women flake on dates at least 56% of the time. The new contract has not only failed, but has made things drastically worse.</p>




## The Ugly Truth

 <p text align = "justify">despite giving women everything, we continued showering them with gifts, flowers, romance, McMansions, wedding rings, expensive weddings, date nights, and “chore play.” There is not one stone left unturned, not one idea unconsidered, not one need untended, and we’re still miles off. What we were missing was one simple, ugly truth. And that ugly truth is that most women simply don't like most men that much and never really did. The only reason it's shocking to men that women don't like them as much is that men's sex drive and cultural traditions blind them to it. But ask yourself a question; does the above theory that women don't like men that much explain most of your interactions with women? Does it not describe th tooth-pulling nature of your experiences with them? Because if you find that it does, that's because it is tooth-pulling. You're trying to convince women to do something they don't viscerally and naturally want to do. So if you wish to have any success with women and not waste your life pursuing something that refuses to reciprocate, you must realize and accept this truth. Most women aren't interested in most men. Of course, women still like men, just top-tier ones. Just like you are not interested in the majority of offers from junk mail, women are not interested in most requests from men. Unfortunately because of the male sex drive, women are inundated with thousands of offers, making men as annoying as junk mail. The internet and the unlimited amount of choice it has given women today has effectively removed most women's interest in most men and also spoiled women to the point they're no longer capable of forming bonding, loving, committed relationships. Furthermore, all these choices have made women who were already genetically programmed to be picky, EVEN PICKIER TODAY.  With the internet making it seem women can have all the men in the world, they will never settle for a guy who is good enough. The internet offers them many options even if they find a quality guy. Women will always be tempted to look fo something better since it is embedded in their DNA. she will think “There is always a better man out there.” women's personalities have also been destroyed. Where sweet, kind, feminine women once were, we now have vapid, arrogant, vindictive, and non-agreeable women today. If you wish to have any hope of navigating women successfully, you must accept the FACT women don't like most men that much. It’s YOUR job to get into the top percentile of men they DO like, don't cry about it.
</P>

<p text align = "justify">
The male sex drive is the most powerful biological force in the world, making sex more of a non negotiable addiction. But Most women don't want to have sex with most men. Yet, despite the new contract's implementation, men are still trying to negotiate sex out of women, much to women's tremendous and never-ending annoyance.  “The Principle of Least Interest” is a law of power. It states that the person or party with less interest in a relationship has all the power.  If this were any other negotiation or contract, men would accept women and longer wish to trade. But because it's sex and men are biologicall hardwired to pursue it more than anything else, that puts men in th significantly disadvantaged position of desperation.  Women know you want sex more than they do. Women know you want them more than they do you. And this imbalance of power allows many of them to “negotiate in bad faith.”
</p>

## Negotiation in bad faith

<p text align = "justify"> women's ulterior motive is to get the two things they seek most out of men – attention and resources.  For example, men and women spend about 90 minutes daily on dating apps. Men have the obvious and honest intention of going on dates and getting laid. But when you do the math for women, that means women are spending between 10-30 hours on dating apps just to go on ONE DATE. With such tremendous waste of time, there is no way women are using dating apps only for dating. Again, they are using them solely for attention. Sadly, this negotiation in bad faith is not without its price. Because while women are perfectly fine spending 90 minutes a day shooting attention in their veins, men are wasting 10% of their waking hours and 10% of their conscious lives on dating apps. There is so much more men could do with this time. You could  start a business. You could read valuable books . You could build a house, get a shredded body at the gym, or enjoy some leisure time. Here is a numerical price tag to measure this waste of time. If you worked that 90 minutes a day earning the median wage, and invested it into an average returning mutual fund starting at 18, you'd have $3.6 million by retirement age. Women don't deserve your attention online.  Naturally, not every girl you date is there to feed off your attention or the free meal you bought her. But if you're not savvy, you will waste an incredible about of time and resources dating girls who aren't that into you. There is no substitute for your experience here. </p>

#strategies-on-dating

<p text align = "justify">One, expect at least half the time the girl will flake or cancel at the last minute. This ensures you have other plans so you don't waste a precious. Friday night off or pass up on an extra shift where you can earn extra money.  Two, Facetime with the girl to make sure she looks like how she presents herself online. Three, keep first dates simple, short, and cheap. Coffee dates or cocktail are perfectly fine, and keep them within walking distance of your place, so you're not wasting time commuting to a date who's going to ghost you. Don't Invest too much soon. In short, when it comes to dating, women deserve less. So limit the time, money, and energy you invest in a girl until she proves she's actually into you and not using you. </p>

You should never give women preferential treatment at your expense. If women cannot make it on their own with all the advantages society , Goverments and coorporations had afforded them, you can't help them. Women deserve less.

## Guarding Your Resources

<p text align = "justify">Women are not stupid. They'll gladly take any free resources, time, money, or attention you'll give them. And given men's disparate sex drive, you'll be biologically compelled to do so. So two things must be done so every man today ensures he lives his best life and doesn't waste it. He must first identify and take inventory on the resources he has. And second, he must follow a policy or decision process before expending those resources, especially regarding women. Every man has three precious resources: Time, money, and energy. Some have more than others. Some are born into wealth. Others are born with superior mentalities or physiques. But regardless of the cards you've been dealt, these are the only resources you will be given in life. And ALL, not some, of your life's failures, successes, and results will derive from how you play them. And so, it is critically important you identify these assets and know when you are being asked to expend them , so that you know you are investing them and not wasting them.  </p>

#Time

<p text align = "justify">
The average man has 78 years of life on this planet, and then it's gone. It's over. And from these 78 years of life, everything else will be determined. Whether you went to school for plumbing or political science. Whether you worked an extra shift or played video games. Whether you went to the gym or jerked off to porn. Whether you got a vasectomy or knocked up some baby mama. All of it is determined by your choices in how you spend your time.  Women have an insatiable desire for male attention and will gladly dangle the prospect of sex in front of your face so they can suck away as much of your time as possible. Young men are particularly susceptible to this. In part because you're horny and blind to whether or not a girl is just using you for attention. In part because the internet provides different avenues in which women can suck away your time or attention. But more so because you're young and think you have all the time in the world. You don't . Your youth is the most critical time to invest in your long-term success. Because wise investments of your time today will be the number on determining factor of your success in the future. And the sooner you aim your life at a higher trajectory; the longer your life will have to sail upwards. You may think texting that girl for 5 hours a week is not wasting time. You might not believe swiping right on girls' profiles for 5 hours a week is a waste of time. But 10 hours a week feeding women attention is costing you your future. Guard your time like it's your life because it is. </p> 

#Money

<p text align = "justify"> Money is nothing more than a physical and exchangeable manifestation of your time. You give up a part of your life in the form of labor, and your employer gives you money in exchange. Since money is your life and a necessary survival tool, it's no joke. It's the most important thing on the planet. So when people say, “it's only money, they are 100% trying to steal your money because they don't want to earn their own. But it's even more nefarious than that. Because when people ask you to give them your money (for nothing in return), they mean, “I want you to be my slave for part of your life ''. But a lot of it could be a traditional woman who wants to be treated as such, and many men might be happy to oblige romantically. Here men must decide on a case-by-case basis whether a woman is worth their money. In general, men should only be doing dinner dates once she proves herself worthwhile after some coffee or cocktail date. Marriage has no doubt made many men poor. But young men need to stop being stupid with their money. Never piss away your money trying to impress women. Save that money to invest instead.</p>

#Enery

<p text align = "justify">“Energy” is the catch-all term for the mental, emotional, psychological, and even caloric resources you put into the pursuit of women. This could be anything like the initial excitement you have when you see a girl you like, the worry that comes with approaching a girl in person, physically helping your girlfriend move, or dealing with the never-ending litany of female crap when you're married. Regardless of the relationship, all relationships take energy. And in choosing to have a relationship with someone, you are going to be required to invest this energy. But this investment doesn't always have to be negative or costly. For example, the giddiness you have when you meet a girl you really like. The excitement that comes with banging a girl for the first time. The hope is tha this girl will be “really cool” and lead to something bigger. These things will energize you more than they cost you. But inevitably, most relationships with women become a net drain of energy. </p>

## CBA

<p text align = "justify">You need to approach women from a cost-benefit analysis where you lay out all the information you have in front of you so you can make a reasoned, rational, and above all else, unemotional decision.  Who is the beneficiary? What are my costs? What are my opportunity costs ? What is the realistic chance of a return on my investment? Always be acutely aware of what you are paying in terms of time, money, and energy, no matter how small the transaction is. You could have studied and improved your skills, you could have bought yourself some leisure experience ... The truth is most men are somehow negotiating, cajoling, convincing, or otherwise tooth-pulling a girl to like him, while most women don't like most men. This results in several common situations that nearly every man is familiar with. Examples are the disinterested girl who sits there on dates and expects you to do all the entertaining and talking. The girl you're texting who occasionally responds to texts, but lackadaisically so. The girl who agrees to go on a date with you, only to flake at the last minute. Or the girl you finally get back to your place, only for her to sheepishly say she doesn't want to have sex, but it's OK if you cuddle. A girl either likes you or doesn't. And it is critically important you accurately ascertain that about every woman you're interested in. Because if you don't, the eternal hope and optimism that is your male sex drive wil assume she does, forcing you to piss away an incredible amount of time, money, and energy on a girl who doesn't reciprocate. And while your heart or your hormones may want one thing, you need to use your brain to answer this question. If you're honest with yourself, most of the time, you will conclude it is not worth the investment. Nine out of 10 times, your efforts in pursuing women are usually just waste of time and you're usually better off investing those resources into yourself. But this doesn't mean you are going to have any less success. As a matter of fact, quite the opposite. Because what you're really doing is cutting your losses. And in cutting those losses, you will ensure you save those resource for yourself. And you'll be amazed by what kind of man you will become if you reinvest those resources into yourself.  your primary interest is you, and you will therefore be the primary beneficiary of those investment
</p>

