

## Understanding How Wealth is created


>  <p  text align = 'justify'>Getting rich is about knowing what to do, who to do it with, and when to do it. It is much more about understanding than purely hard work. Yes, hard work matters, and you can’ skimp on it. But it has to be directed in the right way. If you don’t know yet what you should work on, the most important thing is to figure it out. You should not grind at a lot of hard work until you figure out what you should be working on. You’re not going to get rich renting out your time. You must own equity a piece of a business to gain your financial freedom.  Play iterated games. All the returns in life, whether in wealth, relationships, or knowledge come from compound interest. Pick business partners with high intelligence, energy, and, above all, integrity.  Learn to sell. Learn to build. If you can do both, you will be unstoppable. You will get rich by giving society what it wants but does not yet know how to get. At scale.  Arm yourself with specific knowledge, accountability, and leverage .Specific knowledge is found by pursuing your genuine curiosity and passion rather than whatever is hot right now.  Building specific knowledge will feel like play to you but will look like work to others. 
Fortunes require leverage. Business leverage comes from capital, people, and products with no marginal cost of replication (code and media).  Code and media are permissionless leverage. They’re the leverage behind the newly rich. You can create software and media that works for you while you sleep. Leverage is a force multiplier for your judgment.  If you can’t code, write books and blogs, record videos and podcasts. There is no skill called “business.” Avoid business magazines and business classes. Study microeconomics, game theory, psychology, persuasion, ethics, mathematics, and computers.  Apply specific knowledge, with leverage, and eventually you will get what you deserve.  Work as hard as you can. Even though who you work with and what you work on are more important than how hard you work. 
  There are no get -rich -quick schemes. Those are just someone else getting rich off you.
  </P>


### The Market Place


>  <p text align = "justify">This is hard. This is why I say it takes decades—I’m not saying it take decades to execute, but the better part of a decade may be figuring out what you can uniquely provide.  If I do my job right, if I create value for society, society says, “Oh, thank you. We owe you something in the future for the work you did in the past. Here’s a little IOU. Let’s call that money.”  Society always wants new things. And if you want to be wealthy, you want to figure out which one of those things you can provide for society that it does not yet know how to get but it will want and providing it is natural to you, within your skill set, and within your capabilities. Then, you have to figure out how to scale it because if you only build one, that’s not enough. You’ve got to build thousands, or hundreds of thousands or millions, or billions of them so everybody can have one. Steve Jobs (and his team, of course) figured out society would want smartphones.  computer in their pocket that had all the phone capability times one hundred and was easy to use. So, they figured out how to build it, and then they figured out how to scale it. </P>


### Specific Knowledge  

<p text align = "justify">There are other people to whom these things would be hard, and they say “Well, how do I get good at being pithy and selling ideas?” Well, if you’re not already good at it or if you’re not really into it, maybe it’s not your thing —focus on the thing that you are really into. Specific knowledge is found much more by pursuing your innate talents, your genuine curiosity, and your passion. It’s not by going to school for whatever is the hottest job; it’s not by going into whatever field investors say is the hottest . Specific knowledge cannot be taught, but it can be learned. You can go on the internet, and you can find your audience. And you can build a business, and create a product, and build wealth, and make peopl happy just uniquely expressing yourself through the internet. Escape competition throug authenticity. Basically, when you’re competing with people, it’s because you’re copying them. It’s because you’re trying to do the same thing. But every human is different. Don’t copy.  If you are fundamentally building and marketing something that is an extension of who you are, no one can compete with you on that. The most important skill for getting rich is becoming a perpetual learner. You have to know how to learn anything you want to learn. If you go to the library and there’s a book that you can not understand, you have to dig down and say, “What is the foundation required for me to learn this?” Foundations are super important. Basic arithmetic and numeracy are way more important in life than doing calculus. Similarly, being able to convey yourself simply using ordinary English words is far more important than being able to write poetry, having an extensive vocabulary, or speaking seven different foreign languages. Knowing how to be persuasive when speaking is far more important than being an expert digital marketer or click optimizer. Foundations are key. It’s much better to be at 9/10 or 10/10 on foundations than to try and get super deep into things. </p>


### Compound Interest

>  <p text align = "justify ">Compound interest also happens in your reputation. If you have a sterling reputation and you keep building it for decades upon decades, people will notice. Your reputation will literally end up being thousands or tens of thousands of times more valuable than somebody else who was very talented but is not keeping the compound interest in reputation going. For example, there’s another Angel in Silicon Valley named Elad Gil who I like to do deals with. I love working with Elad because I know when the deal is being done, he will bend over backward to give me extra. He will always round off in my favor if there’s an extra dollar being delivered here or there. If there’s some cost to pay, he will pay it out of his own pocket, and he won’t even mention it to me. Because he goes so far out of his way to treat me so well, I send him every deal I have and I try to include him in everything. Then, I go out of my way to try and pay for him. Compounding in those relationships is very valuable. When you find the right thing to do, when you find the right people to work with, invest deeply. Sticking with it for decades is really how you make the big returns in your relationships and in your money. So, compound interest is very important.  99 % of things you have done in the past are wasted time in the goal oriented life but not wasted in the learning sense. When you’re dating, the instant you know this relationship is not going to be the one that leads to marriage, you should probably move on. When you’re studying something, like a geography or history class, and you realize you are never going to use the information, drop the class. It’s a waste of time. It’s a waste of your brain energy. I’m not saying don’t do the 99 percent, because it’s very hard to identify what the 1 percent is. What I’m saying is: when you find the 1 percent of your discipline which will not be wasted, which you’ll be able to invest for the rest of your life and has meaning to you—go all -in and forget about the rest. </p>


### Taking Accountability


>  <p text align = "justify"> Leverage comes in labor, comes in capital, or it can come through code or media. But most of these, like labor and capital, people have to give to you. For labor, somebody has to follow you. For capital, somebody has to give you money, assets to manage, or machines. So to get these things, you have to build credibility, and you have to do it under your own name as much as possible, which is risky. So, accountability is a double -edged thing. It allows you to take credit when things go well and to bear the brunt of the failure when things go badly.The people who have the ability to fail in public under their own names actually gain a lot of power. Realize that in modern society, the downside risk is not that large. There’s not really that much to fear in terms of failure, and so people should take on a lot more accountability than they do. </p>

### Passive Income


> <p text align = "justify"> Without ownership, your inputs are very closely tied to your outputs. In almost any salaried job, even one paying a lot per hour like a lawyer or doctor, you’re still putting in the hours, and every hour you get paid. Without ownership, when you’re sleeping, you’re not earning. When you’re retired, you’re not earning. When you’re on vacation, you’re not earning. And you can’t earn nonlinearly. But usually, the real wealth is created by starting your own companies or even by investing. In an investment firm, they’re buying equity. These are the routes to wealth. It doesn’t come through the hours. ownership is key because it let's you have control on your income. </p>


### Leverage


> <p text align = "justify"> I only really want to do things for their own sake. That is one definition of art. Whether it’s business, exercise, romance, friendship, whatever, I think the meaning of life is to do things for their own sake. Ironically, when you do things for their own sake, you create your best work. Even if you’re jus trying to make money, you will actually be the most successful. The year I generated the most wealth for myself was actually the year worked the least hard and cared the least about the future. I was mostly doing things for the sheer fun of it.  The less you want something, the less you’re thinking about it, the less you’re obsessing over it, the more you’re going to do it in a natural way. The more you’re going to do it for yourself. You’re going to do it in a way you’re good at, and you’re going to stick with it. The people around you will see the quality of your work is higher. Think about what product or service society wants but does not yet know how to get. You want to become the person who delivers it and delivers it a scale. That is really the challenge of how to make money. #labor is the first  form of leverage where humans are  working for you. It is the oldest form of leverage, and actually not a great one in the modern world.  I would argue this is the worst form of leverage that you could possibly use. Managing other people is incredibly messy. It requires tremendous leadership skills. money is the second form of leverage , It means every time you make a decision, you multiply it with money . Capital is a trickier form of leverage to use. It’s more modern. It’s the one that people have used to get fabulously wealthy in the last century. and it sacles very very well. The final form of leverage is brand new and the most democratic form. It is “products with no marginal cost of replication.” This includes books, media, movies, and code. #Code is probably the most powerful form of permissionless leverage. All you need is a computer and you don’t need anyone’s permission. you can multiply your efforts without involving other humans and without needing money from other humans with the help of code and the internet. Probably the most interesting thing to keep in mind about new forms of leverage is they are permissionless. They don’t require somebody else’s permission for you to use them or succeed. For labor leverage, somebody has to decide to follow you. For capital leverage, somebody has to give you money to invest or to turn into a product. A leveraged worker can out -produce a non -leveraged worker by a factor of one thousand or ten thousand. With a leveraged worker, judgment is far more important than how much time they put in or how hard they work. For example, a good software engineer, just by writing the right little piece of code and creating the right little application, can literally create half a billion dollars’ worth of value for a company. But ten engineers working ten times as hard, just because they choose the wrong model, the wrong product, wrote it the wrong way, or put in the wrong viral loop, have basically wasted their time. Inputs don’t match outputs, especially for leveraged workers. Knowledge workers function like athletes : train and sprint, then rest and reassess.The higher the creativity component of a profession, the more likely it is to have disconnected inputs and outputs leverage and tools create this disconnection. If you’re looking at professions where your inputs and your outputs are highly connected, it’s going to be very hard to create and make wealth for yourself in that process. . A realstate developer is someone who’s going to buy a property, hire a bunch of contractors, and transform it into something higher value. They probably have to take out a loan to buy a house or go to investors to raise money. They buy the old house, tear it down, rebuild it, and sell it. Instead of $50,000 like the general contractor, or fifteen dollars an hour like the laborer, the developer might be able to make a million dollars or half a million dollars in profit when they sell the house for more than they bought it for, including the expenses of construction. But now, notice what is required from the developer: a very high level of accountability and risk. Earn with your mind, not your time. </p>

### Judgment


> <p text align = "justify"> Choosing what kinds of jobs, careers, or fields you get into and what sort or deals you’re willing to take from your employer will give you much more free time. Then, you don’t have to worry as much about time management. I would love to be paid purely for my judgment, not for any work. I want a robot, capital, or computer to do the work, but I want to be paid for my judgment. Demonstrated judgment, credibility and accountability around the judgment is so critical that's why CEO's getpaid so well because thier judgment is built by experience and will probably produce a better profit for the company. Warren Buffett spends a year deciding and a day acting. but That act lasts decades. </p>

### Prioritize Your time
 
 <p text align = "justify" > opportunities are massively abundant. In fact, I have too many ways to make money. I don’t have enough time. I literally have opportunities pouring out of my ears, and I keep running out of time. There are so many ways to create wealth, to create products, to create businesses, and to get paid by society as a byproduct. It’s more about consistently creating wealth by creating businesses, looking for opportunities, and creating investments. No one is going to value you more than you value yourself.  Always factor your time into every decision. How much time does it take ?  It’s going to take you an hour to get across town to get something. If you value yourself at one hundred dollars an hour, that’s basically throwing one hundred dollars out of your pocket.  if you can outsource something or not do something for less than your hourly rate, outsource it or don’t do it. </p>
<p text align = "justify"> There are basically three really big decisions you make in your early life: where you live, who you’re with, and what you do. We spend very little time deciding which relationship to get into. We spend so much time in a job, but we spend so little time deciding which job to get into. Choosing what city to live in can almost completely determine the trajectory of your life, but we spend so little time trying to figure out what city to live in. I would rather be a failed entrepreneur than someone who never tried. Because even a failed entrepreneur has the skill set to make it on their own. The punishment for the love of money is delivered at the same time as the money. As you make money, you just want even more, and you become paranoid and fearful of losing what you do have. There’s no free lunch choose the price to be paid. money will definetely make you more happy , but it doesn't mean it will solve all your problems. the best thing about having money is not to think about money. I think the best way to stay away from this constant love of money is to not upgrade your lifestyle as you make money. It’s very easy to keep upgrading your lifestyle as you make money. I value freedom above everything else. All kinds of freedom: freedom to do what I want, freedom from things I don’t want to do, freedom from my own emotions or things that may disturb my peace. For me, freedom is my number one value. The winners of any game are the people who are so addicted they continue playing even as the marginal utility from winning declines. people who are very good a identifying companies that have just hit product/market fit can make money very easily. Your character and your reputation are things you can build, which will let you take advantage of opportunities other people may characterize as luck . Nobody will give you a chance if you don't add value to thier life rather focus on providing value that attracts people to you. <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">The closer you want to get to me, the better your values have to be.</mark> The worst outcome in this world is not having self -esteem . If you don’ love yourself, who will? </p>


### Be Patient


>  <p text align = "justify"> If you’re counting, you’ll run out of patience before success actually arrives. The most common bad advice I hear is: “You’re too young.” Most of histor was built by young people. They just got credit when they were older. The only way to truly learn something is by doing it. Yes, listen to guidance. But don’t wait . Most of the time, the person you have to become to make money is a high -anxiety , high -stress , hard -working , competitive person. When you have done that for twenty, thirty, forty, fifty years, and you suddenly make money, you can’t turn it off. You’ve trained yourself to be a high -anxiety person. Then, you have to learn how to be happy. </p>

### Accept Reality


>  <p text align = "justify">My definition of wisdom is knowing the long-term consequences of your actions. The direction you’re heading in matters more than how fast you move. I think the smartest people can explain things to a child. If you can’t explain it to a child, then you don’t know it. It’s a common saying and it’s very true.  The number one thing clouding us from being able to see reality is we have preconceived notions of the way it should be . The hard thing is seeing the truth. To see the truth, you have to get your ego out of the way because your ego doesn’t want to face the truth. The smaller you can make your ego, the less conditioned you can make your reactions, the less desires you can have about the outcome you want, the easier it will be to see the reality. You can only make progress when you’re starting with the truth. What we wish to be true clouds our perception of what is true. Suffering is the moment when we can no longer deny reality. The more desire I have for something to work out a certain way, the less likely I am to see the truth. What you feel tells you nothing about the facts , it merely tells you something about your estimate of the facts.  It’s actually really important to have empty space. If you don’t have a day or two every week in your calendar where you’re not always in meetings, and you’re not always busy, then you’re not going to be able to think. You’re not going to be able to have good ideas for your business. You’re not going to be able to make good judgments. I also encourage taking at least one day a week (preferably two, because if you budget two, you’ll end up with one) where you just have time to think  We interpret anything new through our ego: “How do I change the external world to make it more how I would like it to be?” Any belief you took in a package (ex. Democrat, Catholic, American) is suspect and should be re -evaluated from base principles. </p>


### Collect mental models

><p text align = "justify"> Microeconomics and game theory are fundamental. I don’t think you can be successful in business or even navigate most of our modern capitalist society without an extremely good understanding of supply -and -demand , labor versus -capital , game theory, and those kinds of things. It’s worth reading a microeconomics textbook from start to finish.  You don’t need to learn geometry, trigonometry, calculus, or any of the complicated stuff if you’re just going into business. But you want arithmetic probability, and statistics. Those are extremely important. Crack open a basic math book, and make sure you are really good at multiplying, dividing, compounding, probability, and statistics.  If you cannot decide on where you want to live or having a relationship with someone , the answer is no. And the reason is, modern society i full of options. There are tons and tons of options. We live on a planet o seven billion people, and we are connected to everybody on the internet. There are hundreds of thousands of careers available to you. There are so many choices. When you choose something, you get locked in for a long time. Starting a business may take ten years. You start a relationship that will be five years or maybe more. You move to a city for ten to twenty years. These are very, ver long -lived decisions and  It’s very, very important we only say yes when we are pretty certain. You’re never going to be absolutely certain, but you’re going to be very certain. Simple heuristic: If you’re evenly split on a difficult decision, take the path more painful in the short term. By definition, if the two are even and one has short -term pain, and that path has long -term gain associated. With the law of compound interest, long -term gain is what you want to go toward. Your brain is overvaluing the side with the short -term happiness and trying to avoid the one with short -term pain. So you generally want to lean into things with short -term pain, but long term gain.  </p>
><p text align = "justify">The genuine love for reading itself, when cultivated, is a superpower. We live in the age of Alexandria, when every book and every piece of knowledge ever written down is a fingertip away. The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that is scarce.  It’s really more about identifying the great books for you because different books speak to different people. Then, you can really absorb those. I don’t actually read a lot of books. I pick up a lot of books and only get through a few which form the foundation of my knowledge. Real people don’t read an hour a day. Real people, I think, read a minute a day or less. Making it an actual habit is the most important . “As long as I have a book in my hand, I don’t feel like I’m wasting time.” If they wrote it to make money, don’t read it.  It’s not about “educated” vs. “uneducated.” It’s about “likes to read” and “doesn’t like to read.” No book in the library should scare you. Whether it’s a math, physics, electrical engineering, sociology, or economics book. You should be able to take any book down off the shelf and read it. A number of them are going to be too difficult for you. That’s okay—read them anyway. Then go back and reread them and reread them. When you’re reading a book and you’re confused, that confusion is similar to the pain you get in the gym when you’re working out. But you’re building mental muscles instead of physical muscles. Learn how to learn and read the books. When it comes to reading, make sure your foundation is very, very high quality.  If you start with the originals as your foundations, then you have enough of a worldview and understanding that you won’t fear any book Then you can just learn. If you’re a perpetual learning machine, you will never be out of options for how to make money. You can always see what’s coming up in society, what the value is, where the demand is, and you can learn to come up to speed. When solving problems: the older the problem, the older the solution. If you’re trying to learn how to drive a car or fly a plane, you should read something written in the modern age because this problem was created in th modern age and the solution is great in the modern age. If you’re talking about an old problem like how to keep your body healthy, how to stay calm and peaceful, what kinds of value systems are good, how you raise a family, and those kinds of things, the older solutions are probably better.A calm mind, a fit body, and a house full of love. These things can not be bought They must be earned. </p>


## Learning Happiness


>  <p text align = "justify">The fundamental delusion: There is something out there that will make me happy and fulfilled forever. Desire is a contract you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want. Happiness is there when you remove the sense of something missing in your life. We constantly walk around thinking, “I need this,” or “I need that,” trapped in the web of desires. Happiness is the state when nothing is missing. When nothing is missing, your mind shuts down and stops running into the past or future to regret something or to plan something In that absence, for a moment, you have internal silence. When you have internal silence, then you are content, and you are happy. Feel free to disagree. Again, it’s different for everybody. The Tao Te Ching says this more articulately than I ever could, but it’s all duality and polarity.  a lot of greatness in life comes out of suffering. You have to view the negative before you can aspire to and appreciate the positive. To me, happiness is not about positive thoughts. It’s not about negative thoughts. It’s about the absence of desire, especially the absence of desire for external things. The fewer desires I can have, the more I can accept the current state of things, the less my mind is moving, because the mind really exists in motion toward the future or the past. The more present I am, th happier and more content I will be. If I latch onto a feeling, if I say, “Oh, I’am happy now,” and I want to stay happy, then I’m going to drop out of that happiness. Now, suddenly, the mind is moving. It’s trying to attach to something. It’s trying to create a permanent situation out of a temporary situation. You’re born, you have a whole set of sensory experiences and stimulations (lights, colors, and sounds), and then you die. How you choose to interpret them is up to you. you have that choice. </p>


### Being Present & having peace


>  <p text align = "justify">One can be very happy as long as one isn’t too caught up in their own head. At any given time, when you’re walking down the streets, a very smal percentage of your brain is focused on the present. The rest is planning the future or regretting the past. This keeps you from having an incredible experience. It’s keeping you from seeing the beauty in everything and for being grateful for where you are.  We crave experiences that will make us be present, but the cravings themselves take us from the present moment. A lot of our unhappiness comes fro comparing things from the past to the present.  If you pay attention to your mind, sometimes you’re just running around doing your thing and you’re not feeling great, and you notice your mind is chattering and chattering about something. Maybe you can’t sit still… There’s this “nexting” thing where you’re sitting in one spot thinking about where you should be next. It’s most obvious if you ever just sit down and try and do nothing, nothing. I mean nothing, I mean not read a book, I mean not listen to music, I mean literally just sit down and do nothing. You can’t do it, because there’s anxiety always trying to make you get up and go, get up and go, get up and go. I think it’s important just being aware the anxiety is making you unhappy. The anxiety is just a series of running thoughts. How I combat anxiety ? I don’t try and fight it, I just notice I’m anxious because of all these thoughts. I try to figure out, “Would I rather be having this thought right now, or would I rather have my peace?” Because as long as I have my thoughts, I can’t have my peace, and if there is no peace there is no happiness. Enlightenment is the space between your thoughts.” It means enlightenment isn’t something you achieve after thirty years sitting on a mountaintop. It’s something you can achieve moment to moment, and you can be enlightened to a certain percent every single day.  A happy person isn’t someone who’s happy all the time. It’s someone who effortlessly interprets events in such a way that they don’t lose their innate peace. </p>


### Desire is a chosen unhappiness



> <p text align = "justify"> The fundamental delusion is thinking There is something out there that will make me happy and fulfilled forever.  Desire is a contract you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want. I don’t think most of us realize that’s what it is.  I think we go about desiring things all day long and then wonder why we’re unhappy. I like to stay aware of it, because then I can choose my desires very carefully. I try not to have more than one big desire in my life at any given time, and I also recognize it as the axis of my suffering. I realize the area where I’ve chosen to be unhappy. When you’re young and healthy, you can do more. By doing more, you’re actually taking on more and more desires. You don’t realize this is slowly destroying your happiness. I find younger people are less happy but more healthy. Older people are more happy but less healthy.<mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;"> Happiness is being satisfied with what you have. Success comes from dissatisfaction, Choose. Confucius says you have two lives, and the second one begins when you realize you only have one.</mark> </p>
> 
> <p text align = "justify"> I struggled for a lot of my life to have certain material and social successes. When I achieved those material and social successes (or at least was beyond a point where they didn’t matter as much), I realized the people around me who had achieved similar successes and were on their way to achieving more didn’t seem all that happy. In my case, there was definitely hedonic adaptation: I’d very quickly get used to anything This led me to the conclusion, which seems trite, that happiness is internal. That conclusion set me on a path of working more on my internal self an realizing all real success is internal and has very little to do with external circumstances.  One has to do the external thing anyway. We’re biologically hard -wired . It’s glib to say, “You can just turn it off.” <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Your own life experience will bring you back to the internal path.</mark> There’s a line from Blaise Pascal I read. Basically, it says: “All of man’ troubles arise because he can not sit in a room quietly by himself.” If you could just sit for thirty minutes and be happy, you are successful. That is very powerful place to be, but very few of us get there. In my own personal experience, the place I end up the most is wanting to be at peace. Peace is happiness at rest, and happiness is peace in motion. You can convert peace into happiness anytime you want. But peace is what you want most of the time. If you’re a peaceful person, anything you do will be a happy activity Today, the way we think you get peace is by resolving all your external problems. But there are unlimited external problems. The only way to actually get peace on the inside is by giving up this idea of problems. We’re like bees or ants. We are such social creatures, we’re externally programmed and driven. We don’t know how to play and win these single player games anymore. We compete purely in multiplayer games. The reality is life is a single -player game. You’re born alone. You’re going to die alone. All of your interpretations are alone. All your memories are  alone. You’re gone in three generations, and nobody cares. Before you showed up, nobody cared. It’s all single player. </p>


### Happiness is a choice


<p text align = "justify">Happiness is  a skill. Just like nutrition is a skill, dieting is a skill, working out is a skill, making money is a skill, meeting girls and guys is a skill, having good relationships is a skill, even love is a skill. It starts with realizing they’re skills you can learn. When you put your intention and focus on it, the world can become a better place. When working, surround yourself with people more successful than you. When playing, surround yourself with people happier than you. Happiness is built by habits that will benefit you in the long run rather than short dopamine . look around what works for you. <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">At the end of the day, you are a combination of your habits and the people who you spend the most time with.</mark> If you can’t see yourself working with someone for life, don’t work with them for a day. There’s a friend of mine, a Persian guy named Behzad. He just loves life, and he has no time for anybody who is not happy. If you ask Behzad what’s his secret? He’ll just look up and say, “Stop asking why and start saying wow.” The world is such an amazing place. <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">As humans, we’re used to taking everything for granted.</mark> Like what you and I are doing right now. We’re sitting indoors, wearing clothes, well -fed , and communicating with each other through space and time. We should be two monkeys sitting in the jungle right now watching the sun going down, asking ourselves where we are going to sleep. <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">If you’re present, you’ll realize how many gifts and how much abundance there is around us at all times. </mark>That’s all you really need to do. The most important trick to being happy is to realize happiness is a skill you develop and a choice you make. You choose to be happy, and then you work at it. It’s just like building muscles. It’s just like losing weight. It’s just like succeeding at your job. It’s just like learning calculus. Every time you catch yourself desiring something, say, “Is it so important to me I’ll be unhappy unless this goes my way?” You’re going to find with the vast majority of things it’s just not true. </p>

<p text align = "justify"> If you have peace of body, it’s easier to have peace of mind. Caught in a funk? Use meditation, music, and exercise to reset your mood Then choose a new path to commit emotional energy for rest of day. Hedonic adaptation is more powerful for man -made things (cars, houses, clothes, money) than for natural things (food, sex, exercise).  No exceptions all screen activities linked to less happiness, all non-screen activities linked to more happiness.  It’s the news’ job to make you anxious and angry. But its underlying scientific, economic, education, and conflict trends are positive. Stay optimistic.  Increase serotonin in the brain without drugs: Sunlight, exercise, positive thinking, and tryptophan. being peaceful comes from having your mind clear of thoughts. And a lot of clarity comes from being in the presen moment. It’s very hard to be in the present moment if you’re thinking, “ need to do this. I want that. This has got to change.”  You always have three options: you can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. What is not a good option is to sit around wishing you woul change it but not changing it, wishing you could leave it but not leaving it and not accepting it. That struggle or aversion is responsible for most of our misery. The phrase I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one word: “accept.”   Any moment where you’re not having a great time, when you’re not really happy, you’re not doing anyone any favors. It’s not like your unhappiness makes them better off somehow. All you’re doing is wasting this incredibly small and precious time you have on this Earth. Keeping death on the forefront and not denying it is very important. You’re going to die one day, and none of this is going to matter. So enjoy yourself. Do something positive. Project some love. Make someone happy. Laugh a little bit. Appreciate the moment. And do your work </p>


## Saving Yourself



### Diet & Exercise


>  <p text align = "justify"> We evolved for scarcity but live in abundance. We’re probably evolved to use all of our five senses equally as opposed to favoring the visual cortex. In modern society, almost all of our inputs and communication are visual. We’re not meant to walk in shoes. A lot of back and foot problems come from shoes. We’re not meant to have clothes keep us warm all of the time. We’re meant to have some cold exposure. It kickstarts your immune system. There’s a constant struggle to say no when your genes always want to say yes. Yes to sugar. Yes to staying in this relationship. Yes to alcohol. Yes to drugs. Yes, yes, yes. Our bodies don’t know how to say no..  The combination of sugar and fat together is really deadly. You’ve got to watch out for that in your diet.  Most fit and healthy people focus much more on what they eat than how much.  Ditch the extremists and any food invented in the last few hundred years. World’s simplest diet: The more processed the food, the less one should consume. When it comes to medicine and nutrition, subtract before you add. One month of consistent yoga and I feel 10 years younger. To stay flexible is to stay young.  The important thing is to do something every day. It doesn’t matter what it is. The best workout for you is one you’re excited enough to do every day.   Like everything in life, if you are willing to make the short -term sacrifice, you’ll have the long -term benefit. My physical trainer (Jerzy Gregorek) is a really wise, brilliant guy. He always says, “Easy choices, hard life. Hard choices, easy life.” </p>


### Meditation



>  <p text align = "justify">Mostly Meditation focuses on breathing Because Relaxed breathing tells your body you’re safe. Then, your forebrain doesn’t need as many resources as it normally does. Now, the extra energy can be sent to your hindbrain, and it can reroute those resources to the rest of your body. I’m not saying you can beat whatever illness you have just because you activated your hindbrain. But you’re devoting most of the energy normally required to care about the external environment to the immune system.  people are too separate from their natural environment. We’re constantly clothed, fed, and warm. Our bodies have lost touch with the cold. The cold is important because it can activate the immune system. most of our suffering comes from avoidance.  Meditation is intermittent fasting for the mind. Time spent undistracted and alone, in self -examination , journaling, meditation, resolves the unresolved and takes us from mentally fat to fit.  As you start to become aware of what's happening in your mind , the voice inside your head quiets, you stop taking everything around you for granted You start to notice the details. You think, “Wow, I live in such a beautiful place. It’s so great that I have clothes, and I can go to Starbucks and get a coffee anytime. Look at these people—each one has a perfectly valid and complete life going on in their own heads.” It pops us out of the story we’re constantly telling ourselves. If you stop talking to yourself for even ten minutes, if you stop obsessing over your own story, you’ll realize we are really far up Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, and life is pretty good. </p>


<p text align = "justify">any of these states ( drugs , social media , numbing) people strive for are people trying to get out of their own heads. They’re trying to get away from the voice in their heads—the overdeveloped sense of self. At the very least, I do not want my sense of self to continue to develop and strengthen as I get older. I want it to be weaker and more muted so I can be more in present everyday reality, accept nature and the world for what it is, and appreciate it very much as a child would.  <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">The first thing to realize is you can observe your mental state. Meditation doesn’t mean you’re suddenly going to gain the superpower to control your internal state. The advantage of meditation is recognizing just how out of control your mind is. It is like a monkey flinging feces, running around the room, making trouble, shouting, and breaking things. It’s completely uncontrollable. It’s an out -of -control madperson. You have to see this mad creature in operation before you feel a certain distaste toward it and start separating yourself from it. In that separation is liberation. You realize, “Oh, I don’t want to be that person. Why am I so out of control?” Awareness alone calms you down. I’m trying to stay in awareness mode and not activate the monkey mind, which is always worried, frightened, and anxious. It serves incredible purpose, but I try not to activate the monkey mind until I need it. When I need it, I want to just focus on that. If I run it 24/7, I waste energy and the monkey mind becomes me. I am more than my monkey mind. If the brain is like a muscle, I’ll be better off resting it, being at peace. When a particular problem arises, I’ll immerse myself in it.</mark> </p>


<p text align = "justify">Modern humans, we don’t live enough in our bodies. We don’t live enough in our awareness. We live too much in this internal monologue in our heads. All of which is just programmed into you by society and by the environment when you were younger. You recorded the good and bad experiences, and you use them to prejudge everything thrown against you. Then you’re using those experiences, constantly trying and predict and change the future.  I think you can unpack your own mind, your emotions, thoughts and reactions. Then you can start reconfiguring. You can start rewriting this program to what you want. Life is going to play out the way it’s going to play out. There will be some good and some bad. Most of it is actually just up to your interpretation. You’re born, you have a set of sensory experiences, and then you die. How you choose to interpret those experiences is up to you, and different people interpret them in different ways. </p>


### Building Habits


<p text align = "justify">This came to light for me when my trainer gave me a routine to do every single day. I had never worked out every single day before. It’s a light workout. It’s not tough on your body, but I did this workout every single day. I realized the incredible, astonishing transformation it had on me both physically and mentally.  This taught me the power of habits. I started realizing it’s all about habits. At any given time, I’m either trying to pick up a good habit or discard a previous bad habit. It takes time. If someone says, “I want to be fit, I want to be healthy. Right now, I’m out of shape and I’m fat.” Well, nothing sustainable is going to work for you in three months. It’s going to be at least a ten -year journey.  try different things and see what works for you.You should always be internally ready for a complete change. Whenever we say we’re going to try to do something or try to form a habit, we’re wimping out. If you really wanted to change , You will do it no matter what. Anything you have to do, just get it done. Why wait? You’re not getting any younger. Your life is slipping away. When you do them, you want to do them as quickly as you can while doing them well with your full attention. But then, you just have to be patient with the results because you’re dealing with complex systems and many people. Inspiration is perishable act on it immediately. </p>

### Grow 

> <p text align = "justify"> Number one: read. Read everything you can. And not just the stuff that society tells you is good or even books that I tell you to read. Just read for its own sake. Develop a love for it. Regardless of the social outcome, I will learn anything I think is interesting.” <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">Related to the skill of reading are the skills of mathematics and persuasion. Both skills help you to navigate through the real world. Having the skill of persuasion is important because if you can influence your fellow human beings, you can get a lot done. I think persuasion is an actual skill. So you can learn it, and it’s not that hard to do so. Mathematics, mainly  arthimethics , statistics and probability helps with all the complex and difficult things in life. If you want to make money, if you want to do science, if you want to understand game theory or politics or economics or investments or computers, all of these things have mathematics at the core. It’s a foundational language of nature.</mark>  I’m very famous for being rude at parties, events, dinners, where the moment I figure out it’s a waste of my time, I leave immediately. <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">Value your time. It is all you have. It’s more important than your money. It’s more important than your friends. It is more important than anything. Your time is all you have. Do not waste your time. This doesn’t mean you can’t relax. As long as you’re doing what you want, it’s not a waste of your time. But if you’re not spending your time doing what you want, and you’re not earning, and you’re not learning—what the heck are you doing?</mark>. The hardest thing is not doing what you want, it’s knowing what you want. <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">The Moden struggle :  Up against armies of scientists and statisticians weaponizing abundant food, screens, an medicine into junk food, clickbait news, infinite porn, endless games, and addictive drugs</mark>. </p>


## Naval's Core Values


### Honesty


 - I mean I want to be able to just be me. I never want to be in an environment or around people where I have to watch what I say. If I disconnect what I’m thinking from what I’m saying, it creates multiple threads in my mind. 

### Long-term Thinking


- I don’t believe in any short -term thinking or dealing. If I’m doing business with somebody and they think in a short -term manner with somebody else, then I don’t want to do business with them anymore. All benefits in life come from compound interest, whether in money,relationships, love, health, activities, or habits. I only want to be around people I know I’m going to be around for the rest of my life. I only want to work on things I know have long -term payout. Much of finding great relationships, great coworkers, great lovers, wives, husbands, is finding other people where your values line up.


### Rational Budihism

- The rational part means I have to reconcile with science and evolution. have to reject all the pieces I can’t verify for myself. For example, is meditation good for you? Yes. Is clearing your mind a good thing? Yes. Is there a base layer of awareness below your monkey mind? Yes. All these things I’ve verified for myself. When people say your third chakra is opening, etc.—I don’t know—that’s just fancy nomenclature. I have not been able to verify or confirm any of that on my own. If I can’t verify it on my own or if I can not get there through science, then it may be true, it may be false, but it’s not falsifiable, so I cannot view it as a fundamental truth.

## Book Recommendations

-  Sapiens
-  Skin in the Game
-  Thing Explainer: Complicated Stuff in Simple Words
-  A Master’s Secret Whispers
-  The Book of Life
-  The Tao of Seneca: Practical Letters from a Stoic Master
-  The Prophet by Kahlil Gibra
